# DEVNOTES

This is the development log for the `goswaggen` project.
It captures ideas, experiments, technical investigations, decisions made during development.

---

## 📅 [2025-07-30] - Try to parse the func body

### 🧪 Observation / What I Tried
- ✅ There are many ways to send the response using the `echo` framework. This can be used as a way to provide the `@Success` or `@Failure` tag in the swaggo block comment.
- ❌ The `return` response of a handler can be anything, from plain `error` or some kind of error wrapper. This is a common problem for static analysis which there is no way to guess the `return` because it  could be passed down by the `service` or the `repo` layer, or the error that the `handler` catch is sent to the global error handler. The status code also can't be analyze easily because it depends on the layer below. To add more complexity, the `return` statement that is written in the body could be one or two, but that's not necessarily mean the response is only 2 types. The error received could be any error types.
---

### ✅ Decisions
- Use the standard `echo` response for the `@Success` response
- If the `return` part is not using the standard `echo` type, just use the template response that can be configured by the user. Most of the time, the response template used inside a project is typically the same, so determining the standard response for error and failure is not cumbersome. Otherwise, it will send `empty` response so the user can fill it by themselves. For simplicity, it can be config inside yaml file. 
Convention

| Detection Method                        | Action                                                  |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `c.JSON(200, UserResponse{})`           | Auto infer `@Success 200 {object} UserResponse`         |
| `response.WithStatusOKResponse(res, c)` | Use `default_success_type` or infer `res` if possible   |
| Unknown helper                          | Emit `@Success 200 {object} interface{}` with a comment |
| `return err` only                       | Use `default_error_type` for fallback `@Failure 500`    |
| No returns at all                       | Emit `@Success 204` or nothing                          |

Example of minimal config:
```yaml
default_success_type: interface{}
default_error_type: ErrorResponse

known_response_helpers:
  - response.WithStatusOKResponse
  - response.WithError
```
If user didn't provide the config, program will use the default keyword for the response.
For convenience, the goswaggen have a command to generate template config yaml file
---